.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001 Chad David <davidc@acns.ab.ca>. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice(s), this list of conditions and the following disclaimer as
.\"    the first lines of this file unmodified other than the possible
.\"    addition of one or more copyright notices.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice(s), this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER(S) ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
.\" DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER(S) BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
.\" CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
.\" DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd May 28, 2019
.Dt VM_PAGE_WIRE 9
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm vm_page_wire ,
.Nm vm_page_unwire ,
.Nm vm_page_unwire_noq ,
.Nd "wire and unwire pages"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/param.h
.In vm/vm.h
.In vm/vm_page.h
.Ft void
.Fn vm_page_wire "vm_page_t m"
.Ft void
.Fn vm_page_unwire "vm_page_t m" "int queue"
.Ft bool
.Fn vm_page_unwire_noq "vm_page_t m"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn vm_page_wire
function wires the page
.Ar m ,
preventing it from being reclaimed by the page daemon or freed if its
object is destroyed.
.Pp
The
.Fn vm_page_unwire
and
.Fn vm_page_unwire_noq
functions release a wiring of a page.
When the number of wirings drops to zero but the page still belongs to an
object,
.Fn vm_page_unwire
places the page in the specified page queue if it is not already present,
or updates its LRU state to reflect the fact that it was recently referenced.
If the page does not belong to an object, it is freed instead.
.Fn vm_page_unwire_noq
returns true if the page's last wiring was released, and false otherwise.
It is up to the caller to enqueue or free the page as appropriate.
.Sh AUTHORS
This manual page was written by
.An Chad David Aq Mt davidc@acns.ab.ca .
